# Homodyne-Kinetic-Inductor-Readout-Analysis-and-Calibration
Master's thesis project

This repository contains the research project aimed at calibrating and analyzing a single Kinetic Inductance Detector (KID) readout circuit. The objective of this project was to combine the readout circuit with a laptop to analyze and display the results of the input data. The analyzer will serve as a portable test bed for the Astronomy Instrumentation Group (AIG) laboratory in the future.
The working principle of KID is based on the breaking of cooper pairs when light is shone on the superconducting resonator. A single low-energy photon can split a cooper pair and create two normal unbound electrons known as quasi-particles. As photons are absorbed by the detector, they break the cooper pairs, increase the kinetic inductance, and modify the resonate frequency F0. A superconducting micro-resonator is used as a phase-sensitive homodyne readout method, and the resonator serves as the detector.
KID being an LC resonator, can be multiplied using the frequency domain multiplexing method. Multiple resonators were coupled using microwave transmission lines, and each resonator was designed to resonate at a unique frequency by varying the length of the capacitor legs. The length of the inductor was constant, as the fractional change in inductance should be constant across the circuit for the given incident photon energy. The diagram representation of the readout circuit is given in the repository.
The KID was swept and measured through its scattering parameters S21 using a homodyne system, which measures the amplitude and phase of a microwave signal propagated along a feed line past the KID. This was implemented by homodyne mixing.
The functionality of a single mixer is to multiply two signals, resulting in a trigonometric function. The higher-order frequency was filtered out, and the lower-order frequency was used for the analysis. When two signals of the same frequency were mixed, the output of a single mixer was a DC voltage that is proportional to the phase difference between the two signals.
An IQ mixer is basically two mixers where the phase is delayed by 90 at the input of one mixer. Derived I and Q can be used to reconstruct the amplitude and phase of the wave that depend on the sample arm of the system.
This repository contains all the necessary files and documentation related to the project.
